When it comes to GitHub, a lot of people,
they're only focusing on four things.
They're focusing on repo activity and
used to be in old days that was it.
But now it's repo activity
it's your pin projects,
is your profile,
the GitHub profile itself.
And it's about how you're doing things.
Is just as powerful as a resume,
it's basically the new way to tell
your story if you're not using a portfolio
or in conjunction with a portfolio.
So, I actually have one
here of one of my troops.
Let me, here you go, Adrian Grimm.
This is his GitHub portfolio,
his GitHuB profile.
It shows a nice picture of him,
this is a good picture,
with him is all happy stuff like
that's Marines smiling, right.
I mean, that's what you get
when you ask a Marine to smile,
[LAUGH] I don't know what to tell you.
This is all his story,
he's making it personal,
is like you know where he's coming from.
He's coming from artillery to database
admin, he's on Android development.
And now he's with etsuko as
your front end development.
He has added his most used languages,
which I have included here.
Plugins you can use, so you got this.
You have
the GitHub Readme Stats Vercel app,
shout out to Anurag Hazra and
his crew for hosting it.
But this is a Vercel app that
basically makes cards so
you can add to your repos to show
just your stats and your username.
I highly recommend you use these,
because they tell a story.
You have themes, it's pretty awesome.
This is kinda cool, I wish it was
out when I was looking for a job.
I'd use this in a New York minute.
And we have the GitHub
profile views counter.
And it gives you an indicator of how
good your profile is doing, right?
It lets you know how many people shown and
seen your stuff, right?
So going back to this,
I know that his most used languages and
his GitHub status is right here,
he has a little Gif, be here.
I try to tell them not to put their
emails on here because that's
how you get like a bunch of crazy
stuff emailed to you, a bunch of spam.
He has his pin projects,
now pin projects are the things that you
want the employers or
people looking at your site to go towards,
right, you're trying to
influence by design, right?
People by nature are lazy, so when you
put your pin projects repos there,
you're intentionally putting your best
work easiest place for them to find.
So that way they will
gravitate towards it versus,
your most recent repo,
it might be a garbage repo or
something that you just do training or
you playing with the new technology.
So instead of like the more random
process, you are actually guiding them and
making it intentional for them to find the
type of work, find your best work, right?
And here's his contributions
within the last year.
As you can tell, he has been busy,
way busier than me clearly.
He's really been pushing and so
this is something that although as
a community we really try to get hiring
managers to move away from this.
But we have to work with what the world
is, not how we want it to be.
And one of the things that they're doing
is they're still looking at GitHub as your
repo activity, so
you have to prepare for that.
My advice is do something like your
portfolio, your profile site, and
consistently and continuously add,
I'm sorry, add features to your profile,
to your portfolio so that way you can
continue to get those squares green.
Changing colors, adding blocks,
add in a dark mode.
Things that you find in community
are cool and you're like okay,
this is how I should do it,
this is what I wanna do, let me go do it.
Going back up here remember
we talked about copy, right?
So this is what he's done up here,
he started copy, he did,
he added some personality to it.
He's talking about the work that he's
done, he's talking about his experience
with that Sukkot, he's talking about his
experience with fun and development.
He has organizations up here,
he's participated in developer program,
mentor and Arctic code vault contributor.
He has everything like his website and
his Twitter up here.
It's a very clean repo and
it's the first thing that
the employer is gonna see, right?
So that's what you wanna do,
like this is a relatively new
thing that they've pushed out and
it's something that you
really want to use as a tool.
As another tool that helps you
break that threshold of becoming
a frontend developer.
There's another guy, Jason,
he does a lot of things at Gatsby,
and I think his is really wild.
I'm not gonna mess around and
figure it out because I'm gonna
mess up spelling his last name.
And I don't want that on camera, so
he [INAUDIBLE] me in the DMs,
so I'm gonna pass on that.
>> Jason.af
>> So I just go jason.af and
I'll be able to find his.
Click and see, this is a crazy portfolio
I just wanted to get your GitHub man,
[LAUGH] Here we go.
Yeah, he can do everything great but
grow hair.
So yes,
I hope that goes into this workshop so
he knows that I clown him for
being bald headed on live workshop.
And I can't wait till he sees
this [LAUGH] he's gonna get me.
Yeah, so
this is a great way he has his profile,
he has the projects that
he wants people to share.
He's another person that is
making me look bad on Twitter,
I mean on GitHub with all of
his contributions of the year.
So like this is how it stores and
see this short little bit of information
that is like okay,
this is all you know about me.
And he's showing a little bit of fun whle
he's talking about the things that he does
right?
As a worker who neds to know about
that you're okay at making drinks,
alcoholic beverages?
But it works, it humanizes him,
makes it easier to approach HR,
it disarms HR.
That's what humor is used,
humor is used to disarm.
It's an amazing disarming tool that we use
in the military when we're going through
crazy things right?
So the humor disarms HR,
to make him seem more personal,
that makes him easier to approach.
So that way they can talk to him
about the options they have.
As a internal developer,
you should use that too,
that's something that we've learned,
mid and senior devs that we use.
When you see all these quirky
things in our Twitters,
we're doing that as a way to convey that
we don't take ourselves too seriously.
We are approachable, come talk to us.
Cuz you never know what type
opportunities are gonna be there or
who I can help, so
that's what that's there for.
And he's actually really helpful person,
he's follically challenged.
I'm sorry, I just love making fun of him.
[LAUGH] Do we have any
questions about this?
>> Are there examples of
resumes with less experience?
It seems like all of
these are flushed out.
>> Well, let's say Adrian,
he's not really well established.
He's only been learning how to code for
I think a year, so
he's not well established at all.
He's green, he's a rookie,
so I can say that from,
he's come through my
program he's very green.
It just is how hard we
tend to push people.
No, yeah, but he's I think,
yeah, started a year ago.
He started a year playing with
Android stuff then found us,
converted into JavaScript so he's green.
He's green as they get,
he's less than a year into it.
Just a lot of work, which is what I keep
saying, keep producing, keep building.
We're gonna get more into that later,
cuz I want you guys not to be
intimidated by this stuff but
like this should motivate you, to do yeah,
I need to do more work, right?
Cuz the guys out here who they're
calling green and rookies,
they're doing 1000 commits a year, right?
So that's the whole mentality,
and when I say there's no.
Bruce Lee actually said it best,
rather be overtrained than undertrained.
He wasn't saying overtraining,
over working out,
he was saying is being over prepared,
right?
There's no such thing as
being over prepared, right?
There's a such thing as
being underprepared but
you can't ever be over prepared.
And this is a great example,
somebody who isn't, while they're
newer to code like they are putting in
the work and they're doing those reps.
Because what we do is a skill,
it is a craft that is closer to
alchemy than anything else, right?
It's magic and science combined in one.
We use about thing that you can
learn through academia, but
you only get better of it when you
actually apply it and experience, right?
So that's what you have to do.
The academia part is fine, but
you have to constantly and
consistently build and do things to
really get that level of mastery.
>> How would you handle private repos,
and how would you handle,
like I did work for somebody else,
and I have to sign an NDA, so
how do I handle that in a job interview,
showing them the code and all of that?
>> I recommend building a project
on your own that you can host,
that basically showcases your skills.
One project, first and foremost,
having one project that deep
dive is worth more than seven
projects that are like small
boilerplate concepts, right?
So one project where you can consistently
add things to is always gonna
be better than you see it
on everybody's portfolio.
They have three projects and
it's all JavaScript calculators and
all this other crap, but
no one cares about any of that stuff.
So what you wanna do is,
you wanna focus on just
consistently adding to your project,
so that people can see your skills.
Even if you have that hurdle
of NDAs, I can't show you work
cuz of the repo's private.
That's where consistently producing
things for yourself comes into play.
That's just but one example,
like getting your employers attention.
>> How important is it to have green
commits on your GitHub user profile?
>> It depends, sometimes it's an issue,
sometimes it's not.
I have been one of those people
who've never had a lot of green
on my repo activity.
And because what I've done to do that, is
I've offshored it by doing other things.
Like focusing on education or
talks or writing.
I'm a big writer, right, I do a lot
of writing when it comes to blogs.
So, is more of, all right,
this is great, but
you can show your niche in other places.
Like that's just a really good portfolio.
If you have everything else is A1,
they say, your repo activity is great,
this is just one of the indicators.
There are four parts there, right?
So going back here, you have the profile,
you have the plugins,
you have the pin projects.
Then at the very bottom you have
the contributions of the last year.
This is just one part
of four where they're
gonna take all of this to grade you on,
right?
So this person is pushing
really hard to have all four,
done really well,
he's done a really good job of this.
But as long as you have
a nice clean repo I mean,
they're gonna be like okay,
you actually care.
Manicured projects outlay a lot of work
done on projects that don't really care
about, so that's fine.